So whenever you're
building an application,
you're probably gonna be dealing
with some environment variables,
things like API keys and
database credentials.
And these can be added to
a .env file when you're
developing locally, so
that you can know those secrets.
In this exercise we want
to allow the user to enter
the website if they know the correct
passphrase using an environment variable.
So right now, if they know
the passphrase which is open sesame,
nothing happens or
at least nothing good happens because
we haven't declared that environment
variable in our button file.
So we'll do that now,
create the passphrase, open SESAME,
And now inside our route page server js,
we can import that
environment variable from
the env static private module,
And this is where they're getting kicked
out before cuz the data get passphrase
does not equal the hard coded value or
replace that hard coded value,
we'll replace the hard coded value
with the environment variable.
And now if you sign open
sesame into the input, I'm in.
Now, it's important that when you're
dealing with environment variables, that
you don't accidentally expose them to the
user because then they could be stolen and
that would not be good.
And SvelteKit actively prevents you from
accidentally revealing your secrets.
If you try and pull nvars into
your page.svelte component,
Sorry, I lost my scroll pace.
If you try and import env/static/private
into your Svelte component,
then it's gonna break.
All right, we see this error message
from V that says cannot import
env/static/private into client side code.
Right, this is a server only module, and
there's a few server
only modules Svelte Kit.
Anytime you have a module
that has the .server suffix,
page.server.js, layout.server.js,
+server.js, or
any of your own modules that
have a.server.js and suffix.
And also any modules
inside source/lib/server,
these are considered server modules that
cannot be imported into client side code
under any circumstances, and so within
those files it's quite safe to access
environment variables into communicate
directly with your database.
And in turn, those modules can only
be imported by other server modules.
You might be wondering why this module
has such a funny name env/static/private.
The static part indicates that these
values are known at build time, and
that means that they can
be statically replaced.
And this enables useful optimizations.
For example, if you have a feature flag
that is statically analyzed at build time,
then any code that is inside
this block will just be removed
altogether if the feature flag
is not currently enabled.
So where possible, we recommend using
static environment variables but some
cases, it might not be possible, you might
need to refer to environment variables
that are not known when your app is built
but only known when your app is run.
And for these we use dynamic
environment variables.
So we have the same exercise as before,
but this time we're gonna use dynamic
environment variables
instead of static ones.
First, we're gonna change the module
that we're importing from to dynamic,
And we're gonna import env instead of
passphrase because we don't know yet
what properties that env
object is going to have.
And then down here we're gonna replace
passphrase with env.passphrase.
And now as before when we type in
the passphrase, we get into the website.
So, so far we've been dealing with
environment variables that are secret,
and they can only be accessed
by server modules but
you might have some environment variables
that are safe to reveal to the user.
And these are distinguished from
private environment variables by having
a PUBLIC_prefix which you can
configure in your stock config.
So in our .env file here,
we're gonna set some public
environment variables, but
pick a color like steel blue for
the background and
bisque for the foreground.
And then inside our component
we can in fact import these and
replace the hard coded variables
that we currently have.
So just delete all of that And
import PUBLIC_THEME_BACKGROUND and
PUBLIC_THEME_FOREGROUND From
env/static/public.
And now when we reload this page, it's
pulling those values directly from our
env file, so we can change that And
it will it will update the app.
And again, because we're
pulling from a static env file,
those properties will be replaced in
your code when the application is built.
Finally, of course,
we can have dynamic public environment
variables to same as before, we're
just gonna change the input to env and
grab that from the dynamic module instead.
And then we'll prefix all of
these with the env seen there,
And now the application
renders same as before.
Any questions about environment variables?
All right, well I have some good news.
We have finished the tutorial.
Congratulations everyone,
thank you for bearing with me,
this has been a lot of
content to get through.
If you've made it the entire
way through this tutorial,
you can now consider yourself a Svelte and
SvelteKit experts.
You can start building apps on your
own machines by just typing npm
create svelte on the command line,
follow the prompts,
that will set you up
with a new application.
But this is not the end, Svelte and
SvelteKit will continue to evolve,
we're always adding new features and
as a consequence this
documentation will also evolve.
So I do encourage you to
check back periodically and
see if there's new material.
And if you wanna keep up with
developments in the Svelte world,
you can join our Discord server, it's
a very friendly space at svelte.dev/chat.
And you can follow Svelte
society on Twitter,
where you'll get a stream of updates
on everything Svelte related.
We are very happy to welcome you
all to the Svelte community.
Thank you for doing the tutorial with us.
And now we're gonna move on to
the final part of this workshop,
where we're gonna take everything that
we've learned in the Svelte course and
the SvelteKit course, and we're gonna
build a full stack application.